README.adoc, before:

= Spring-Boot Camel QuickStart using ConfigMaps and Secrets

This quickstart demonstrates how to configure a Spring-Boot application using Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets.

A route generates sample messages that are delivered to a list of recipient endpoints
configured through a property named `quickstart.recipients` in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file.
The property can be overridden using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.
As soon as a ConfigMap named `camel-config` (containing a property named `application.properties`) is created or changed in the namespace,
 an application-context refresh event will be triggered and the logs will reflect the new configuration.
 A sample `ConfigMap` (`sample-configmap.yml`) is contained in this repository (it changes the configuration to use all available endpoints in the `recipientList`).

The quickstart will run on Openshift using a `ServiceAccount` named `qs-camel-config`, with the `view` role granted.
This way, the application is allowed to read the `ConfigMap` and to listen for changes in the current Openshift project.

Secrets can also be used to configure the application (a sample username/password combination is configured using secrets in this quickstart).
Unlike the `ConfigMap` objects, secrets require higher permissions in order to be read using the Openshift APIs.
To overcome this security limitation, the approach used in this quickstart is to mount the secret as a volume in the Pod and
configure its location in the spring-cloud config file (`src/main/resources/bootstrap.yml`).

A sample secret (`sample-secret.yml`) is contained in this repository (it just replaces the username `wrong-username` with `myuser`).

**Note: a secret named `camel-config` must be present in the namespace before the application is deployed**
(otherwise the container remains in a pending status, waiting for it).

The application utilizes the Spring http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/context/annotation/ImportResource.html[`@ImportResource`] annotation to load a Camel Context definition via a _src/main/resources/spring/camel-context.xml_ file on the classpath.

IMPORTANT: This quickstart can run in 2 modes: standalone on your machine and on Kubernetes / OpenShift Cluster

== Deployment options

You can run this quickstart in the following modes:

* Kubernetese / Single-node OpenShift cluster
* Standalone on your machine

The most effective way to run this quickstart is to deploy and run the project on OpenShift.

For more details about running this quickstart on a single-node OpenShift cluster, CI/CD deployments, as well as the rest of the runtime, see the link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/spring-boot-runtime.html[Spring Boot Runtime Guide].

== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster

IMPORTANT: You need to run this example on Container Development Kit 3.3 or OpenShift 3.7.
Both of these products have suitable Fuse images pre-installed.
If you run it in an environment where those images are not preinstalled follow the steps described in <<single-node-without-preinstalled-images>>.

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config
----

. Create the (**required**) secret:
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-secret.yml
----

. Create the ConfigMap (the ConfigMap can be also created after the application has been deployed, to see the live-reload feature in action):
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-configmap.yml
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift
----

. In your browser, navigate to the `MY_PROJECT_NAME` project in the OpenShift console.
Wait until you can see that the pod for the `spring-boot-camel-config` has started up.

. On the project's `Overview` page, navigate to the details page deployment of the `spring-boot-camel-config` application: `https://OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR:8443/console/project/MY_PROJECT_NAME/browse/rc/spring-boot-camel-config-NUMBER_OF_DEPLOYMENT?tab=details`.

. Switch to tab `Logs` and then see the messages sent by Camel.

[#single-node-without-preinstalled-images]
=== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster without preinstalled images

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Configure Red Hat Container Registry authentication (if it is not configured).
Follow https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_fuse/7.10/html-single/fuse_on_openshift_guide/index#configure-container-registry[documentation].

. Import base images in your newly created project (MY_PROJECT_NAME):
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc import-image fis-java-openshift:2.0 --from=registry.access.redhat.com/jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift:2.0 --confirm
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config
----

. Create the (**required**) secret:
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-secret.yml
----

. Create the ConfigMap (the ConfigMap can be also created after the application has been deployed, to see the live-reload feature in action):
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-configmap.yml
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift -Djkube.generator.fromMode=istag -Djkube.generator.from=MY_PROJECT_NAME/fis-java-openshift:2.0
----

. In your browser, navigate to the `MY_PROJECT_NAME` project in the OpenShift console.
Wait until you can see that the pod for the `spring-boot-camel-config` has started up.

. On the project's `Overview` page, navigate to the details page deployment of the `spring-boot-camel-config` application: `https://OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR:8443/console/project/MY_PROJECT_NAME/browse/rc/spring-boot-camel-config-xml-NUMBER_OF_DEPLOYMENT?tab=details`.

. Switch to tab `Logs` and then see the messages sent by Camel.

== Integration Testing

The example includes a  Kubernetes Integration Test.
Once the container image has been built and deployed in Kubernetes, the integration test can be run with:

[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn test -Dtest=*KT
----

The test is disabled by default and has to be enabled using `-Dtest`.

== Running the quickstart standalone on your machine
To run this quickstart as a standalone project on your local machine:

. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.
. Build the project:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd PROJECT_DIR
$ mvn clean package
----
. Run the service:

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn spring-boot:run
----
. See the messages sent by Camel.

Commit message:

ENTESB-17405 - note about java 11 in quickstarts

README.adoc, after:

= Spring-Boot Camel QuickStart using ConfigMaps and Secrets

This quickstart demonstrates how to configure a Spring-Boot application using Kubernetes ConfigMaps and Secrets.

A route generates sample messages that are delivered to a list of recipient endpoints
configured through a property named `quickstart.recipients` in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file.
The property can be overridden using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.
As soon as a ConfigMap named `camel-config` (containing a property named `application.properties`) is created or changed in the namespace,
 an application-context refresh event will be triggered and the logs will reflect the new configuration.
 A sample `ConfigMap` (`sample-configmap.yml`) is contained in this repository (it changes the configuration to use all available endpoints in the `recipientList`).

The quickstart will run on Openshift using a `ServiceAccount` named `qs-camel-config`, with the `view` role granted.
This way, the application is allowed to read the `ConfigMap` and to listen for changes in the current Openshift project.

Secrets can also be used to configure the application (a sample username/password combination is configured using secrets in this quickstart).
Unlike the `ConfigMap` objects, secrets require higher permissions in order to be read using the Openshift APIs.
To overcome this security limitation, the approach used in this quickstart is to mount the secret as a volume in the Pod and
configure its location in the spring-cloud config file (`src/main/resources/bootstrap.yml`).

A sample secret (`sample-secret.yml`) is contained in this repository (it just replaces the username `wrong-username` with `myuser`).

**Note: a secret named `camel-config` must be present in the namespace before the application is deployed**
(otherwise the container remains in a pending status, waiting for it).

The application utilizes the Spring http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/context/annotation/ImportResource.html[`@ImportResource`] annotation to load a Camel Context definition via a _src/main/resources/spring/camel-context.xml_ file on the classpath.

IMPORTANT: This quickstart can run in 2 modes: standalone on your machine and on Kubernetes / OpenShift Cluster. Quickstart requires Java 8 or Java 11 (`fuse-java-openshift-jdk11-rhel8` image is used to build in Java 11).

== Deployment options

You can run this quickstart in the following modes:

* Kubernetese / Single-node OpenShift cluster
* Standalone on your machine

The most effective way to run this quickstart is to deploy and run the project on OpenShift.

For more details about running this quickstart on a single-node OpenShift cluster, CI/CD deployments, as well as the rest of the runtime, see the link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/spring-boot-runtime.html[Spring Boot Runtime Guide].

== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster

IMPORTANT: You need to run this example on Container Development Kit 3.3 or OpenShift 3.7.
Both of these products have suitable Fuse images pre-installed.
If you run it in an environment where those images are not preinstalled follow the steps described in <<single-node-without-preinstalled-images>>.

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config
----

. Create the (**required**) secret:
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-secret.yml
----

. Create the ConfigMap (the ConfigMap can be also created after the application has been deployed, to see the live-reload feature in action):
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-configmap.yml
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift
----

. In your browser, navigate to the `MY_PROJECT_NAME` project in the OpenShift console.
Wait until you can see that the pod for the `spring-boot-camel-config` has started up.

. On the project's `Overview` page, navigate to the details page deployment of the `spring-boot-camel-config` application: `https://OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR:8443/console/project/MY_PROJECT_NAME/browse/rc/spring-boot-camel-config-NUMBER_OF_DEPLOYMENT?tab=details`.

. Switch to tab `Logs` and then see the messages sent by Camel.

[#single-node-without-preinstalled-images]
=== Running the Quickstart on a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster without preinstalled images

A single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster provides you with access to a cloud environment that is similar to a production environment.

If you have a single-node Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster, such as Minishift or the Red Hat Container Development Kit, link:http://appdev.openshift.io/docs/minishift-installation.html[installed and running], you can deploy your quickstart there.


. Log in to your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc login -u developer -p developer
----

. Create a new OpenShift project for the quickstart:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc new-project MY_PROJECT_NAME
----

. Configure Red Hat Container Registry authentication (if it is not configured).
Follow https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_fuse/7.10/html-single/fuse_on_openshift_guide/index#configure-container-registry[documentation].

. Import base images in your newly created project (MY_PROJECT_NAME):
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ oc import-image fis-java-openshift:2.0 --from=registry.access.redhat.com/jboss-fuse-6/fis-java-openshift:2.0 --confirm
----

. Change the directory to the folder that contains the extracted quickstart application (for example, `my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config`) :
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd my_openshift/spring-boot-camel-config
----

. Create the (**required**) secret:
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-secret.yml
----

. Create the ConfigMap (the ConfigMap can be also created after the application has been deployed, to see the live-reload feature in action):
+
----
$ oc create -f sample-configmap.yml
----

. Build and deploy the project to the OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn clean -DskipTests oc:deploy -Popenshift -Djkube.generator.fromMode=istag -Djkube.generator.from=MY_PROJECT_NAME/fis-java-openshift:2.0
----

. In your browser, navigate to the `MY_PROJECT_NAME` project in the OpenShift console.
Wait until you can see that the pod for the `spring-boot-camel-config` has started up.

. On the project's `Overview` page, navigate to the details page deployment of the `spring-boot-camel-config` application: `https://OPENSHIFT_IP_ADDR:8443/console/project/MY_PROJECT_NAME/browse/rc/spring-boot-camel-config-xml-NUMBER_OF_DEPLOYMENT?tab=details`.

. Switch to tab `Logs` and then see the messages sent by Camel.

== Integration Testing

The example includes a  Kubernetes Integration Test.
Once the container image has been built and deployed in Kubernetes, the integration test can be run with:

[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn test -Dtest=*KT
----

The test is disabled by default and has to be enabled using `-Dtest`.

== Running the quickstart standalone on your machine
To run this quickstart as a standalone project on your local machine:

. Download the project and extract the archive on your local filesystem.
. Build the project:
+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ cd PROJECT_DIR
$ mvn clean package
----
. Run the service:

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mvn spring-boot:run
----
. See the messages sent by Camel.
